------------------------------Advanced Example---------------------------------					README FILE


UNDERGROUND PHYSICS

An example of a underground dark matter example.

Please see the UserRequirements.txt and related web-pages at the end of that
document.

Over-view:
A single liquid xenon cell is simulated within Geant4 and the scintillation
light produced from interactions from various calibration species is recorded
as PhotoMultiplier hits.  The output is then written to an ASCII file for
future off-line analysis.

Geometry:
Experimental set-up:

A "cavern" 5m x 6m x 3m with concrete walls is defined as the World Volume.
In the centre of the cavern a steel vacuum vessel containing liquid and gaseous
xenon is placed.  The internal construction of the vessel accurately
reproduces a prototype Dark Matter detector that has allows experimentally
comparison.  A series of metal rings, copper thermal equalisation and an
internal PhotoMultilier Tube are incorporated.


Hits Output:
An ASCII file containing the following information:
"Event# TotalEnergyDeposit LXeDeposit LXeTime PMTHits PmtTime FirstParticle   
Flags to indicate which particles have been hits" 

Pmt Output:
"Hit#    X, mm   Y, mm   Z, mm"
Photon hit positions within the PMT face


To Run:
Either run the macro files interactively or in batch if the command
DMX macro_name.mac
is executed.

Note:
The output file hits.out contains an event summary.  However, if using the
RadioactiveDecay of nuclei the time information is erroneous due to the
precision required to detect a scintillation time ~10's nanoseconds on a global
time of 432 years (in the case of 241Am decay)


Note: The following environment variables need to be set:
G4RADIOACTIVEDATA -> points to Radioactive Decay Data files
G4LEDATA -> points to low energy data base - G4EMLOW0.4
G4LEVELGAMMADATA -> points to PhotoEvaporation data
NeutronHPCrossSections -> points to neutron data files G4NDL3.5



NB:
If using explicit libraries (?) i.e. non-shared then compilation time with
neutrons in physics list is very long (>5 minutes) - check this.............
It is more efficient to use shared libraries that are loaded at run-time with
increased initialisation time (at run-time).

Also if using shared libraries the load time at run-time may be several minutes
- this is partially due to the neutron implementation requires full data sets
for each isotope being specified.


--------------------------------------

If running on Redhat 7.0 or above set G4SYSTEM to Linux-g++, alternatively you
can install backward compatibility to egcs, however, requires
config/sys/Linux-egcs.gmk to be altered so that CXX is set to kgcc 
(compared to g++ in original file)

--------------------------------------


Alex Howard, 29/11/01


