
        Geant4 extended examples - run and event
        ----------------------------------------

 Examples in this directory demonstrate the use of some features in
Run and Event categories. Since these categories are on the top of
hierarchy of Geant4 structure to control the full functionarities of
Geant4, some examples contain features in other categories such as
Tracking, Track, Particles, Detector responces, and even some cases
Geometry and Processes.

RE01
----

 This example demonstrates how to connect the information between
primary particles and hits. It also utilizes some user-information 
classes. Readout geometry is implemented as a parallel world.
Decay of "Unknown" particle (that may represent whatever a particle 
Geant4 does not know how to deal with) is taken care as "pre-assigned
decay products".

RE02
----

 This example demonstrates how to accumulate the physics quantities
such as energy deposition and dose for a run. It also demonstrates
the use of primitive scorers.

RE03
----

 This example demonstrates how to use UI-command base scoring.
It create parallel world(s) for defining scoring mesh(es).

RE04
----

 This example demonstrates how to define layered mass geometry in
a parallel world and use it in a simulation.

RE05
----

 Defines a simplified collider detector setup.
Demonstrates interfacing to the PYTHIA primary generator. Includes
the definition of a 'readout' geometry. Exercises event filtering using
the stacking mechanism. Includes visualization.
It was moved in extended examples from novice/N04 with removal of
novice examples. 

RE06 
----

Implements three simplified sandwitch calorimeters.
Shows how to modify part of the geometry setup at run-time. Includes
detector description parameterisation by materials. Demonstrates
sharing of a sensitive detector definition for different sub-detectors.
Defines different geometrical regions with different production
thresholds. Shows customization of the G4Run.
It was moved in extended examples from novice/N07 with removal of
novice examples. 
